To enhance stakeholder and management understanding, I have implemented a comprehensive dashboard 
that includes all the relevant charts and key performance indicators (KPIs). The dashboard serves 
as a visual representation of the relevant data and provides a consolidated view of important metrics.
By incorporating various charts and KPIs, we aim to facilitate easy interpretation and analysis of the 
information for decision-making purposes.

This dashboard delivers data regarding student engagement and other necessary data in Abhyaz.
This is the public link: https://analytics.zoho.com/open-view/1742677000019152423/da3f80a461d85f31522d92cc637afd4b

Problem Statement:

1. Higher management and stakeholders want the Abhyaz Asset Utilization Dashboard, which shows KPIs, 
statistics regarding student engagement and the expansion of the product in Abhyaz.

2. There were some ad hoc requests:
(a) Create a chart that represents the top 5 most-enrolled programs.
(b) Create a chart that represents the top 5 most accessed courses, categories, and components at Abhyaz.
(c) Create a chart that represents the top 5 least accessed courses, categories, and components at Abhyaz.
(d) Create a chart that represents the activities that are least accessed by the users.

3. The data supplied by the Engineering department had two user IDs; hence, both the active and inactive 
User counts were inaccurate.

4. The manual procedure of cleansing the data takes time. I have confirmed with 
the Engineering Department regarding the data they have shared. This procedure 
requires time and occasionally results in inaccuracies.

5. My responsibility as a data analyst was to automate the manual procedure as well as 
identify an alternate method.
 
Solution:

1. Inspect the Zoho Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system where the Abhyaz Asset data was recently entered.
2. Created a bar chart that displays the top 5 most-enrolled programs so that stakeholders can understand 
product growth and statistics regarding student engagement.
3. Created a bar chart for the most and least accessed categories so that management could take action on it.
4. Create a pie chart for the most and least accessed courses and components so they can improve the engagement of users with them.
5. The least accessible activities have been represented with the help of a table view so that users can utilize those activities as well.
6. Added all the charts and KPIs to the dashboard for a better understanding of user engagement and product activation rates.
7. Created a timeline filter to point out changes in value over time and sales figures.
8. Recognize the data and get to know that there were two user IDs present in the data for unenrolled users:
One is for an admin user, and the other is a user ID.
9. Extract the user IDs of registered and removed users from the column titled Description with the help of Python 
to gain a precise count of both active and inactive users.
10. Set up mechanisms to automatically update the data on the dashboard, ensuring that the charts and KPIs reflect the most recent information.
This may involve connecting the dashboard to relevant data sources or implementing data integration solutions.
11. As a result, there was a 75% reduction in overall duration while also increasing efficiency and reducing errors.


With the help of this, stakeholders can easily interpret and  understand the data, which allows them to quickly see trends and patterns in the data, 
so that they can make better business decisions.
